Lyn Stone
February 26 at 8:41 PM  · 
"Syllabification" - another hangover from weird phonics practices that can't see beyond grapheme-phoneme correspondences:
I received a text the other day from a lovely friend and colleague. She asked, "How do you syllabify 'ordinary'?"
Well I don't. 
Here is my response:
“How would you syllabify X word? This person says you should do it this way and this person says you should do it that way and this person…”
Is that not a red flag to you? If adults can’t even give you a straight answer, what hope do kids have?
What is the end goal here? Pronunciation in a single unit of time or placement in LTM?
Maybe ask better questions such as:
What are the significant elements in this word? What other words share those elements?
I’ll do your example word for you, but only if you promise to ask better questions next time and start using the Online Etymology Dictionary.
Ordinary:
The ordin- part denotes “customary, regular, usual, orderly,”
The -ary part is an adjective and noun-forming suffix
So where else do you see these parts?
ordin:
ordinal, ordinance, coordinate, inordinate, ordination, subordinate, inordinate, extraordinary
-ary:
primary, secondary, binary, dietary, honorary, literary, salivary, customary, imaginary etc.
Who cares where you “syllabify” these parts? What’s that got to do with anything? 
You might say that we need to teach kids to pronounce those words when reading. Sure. But a significant number of those words are already in their oral lexicon. They already know how to pronounce them, they need to now orthographically map them. 
And the words they don’t know how to pronounce, well they need to understand their meaning, regardless. We all have words we can understand in print that we don’t have the 100% accurate pronunciation for. Why apply dodgy “syllabification” rules to these and use up the cognitive real estate we could use for meaning and schema-building instead? 
Besides, there’s this concept of ‘set for variability’ that takes care of alternative pronunciations. Look it up, you’ll love it.
